h1. Introduction

h2. Purpose

This document provides an overview of the openEHR architecture in terms of a model overview, key global semantics, deployment and integration architectures, relationship to published standards, and finally the approach to building Implementation Technology Specifications (ITSs). Semantics specific to each information, archetype and service model are described in the relevant model.

The intended audience includes:

* Standards bodies producing health informatics standards
* Software development groups using openEHR
* Academic groups using openEHR
* The open source healthcare community

This document is the key technical overview of openEHR, and should be read before all other technical documents.

h2. Status

This document is under development, and is published as a proposal for input to standards processes
and implementation works.

This document is available at 
 "http://svn.openehr.org/specification/TAGS/Release-1.0/publishing/architecture/overview.pdf":http://svn.openehr.org/specification/TAGS/Release-1.0/publishing/architecture/overview.pdf 

The latest version of this document can be found at "http://svn.openehr.org/specification/TRUNK/publishing/architecture/overview.pdf":http://svn.openehr.org/specification/TRUNK/publishing/architecture/overview.pdf 

New versions are announced on "openehr-announce@openehr.org":mailto:openehr-announce@openehr.org

Blue text indicates sections under active development.

h2. Peer review

Areas where more analysis or explanation is required are indicated with "to be continued" paragraphs like the following:

To Be Continued: more work required

Reviewers are encouraged to comment on and/or advise on these paragraphs as well as the main content. Please send requests for information to "info@openEHR.org":mailto:info@openEHR.org. Feedback should preferably be provided on the mailing list "openehr-technical@openehr.org":mailto:openehr-technical@openehr.org, or by private email.
